clearing chemical weapons then pulling
in the range you don't you have less
options we have been irresponsible we
sold arms to Iraq and trained them and
how to use them
we sold arms to Iran and trained them
how to use them it was not Iraq that
brought the first nuclear and chemical
weapons into the Middle East it was
Israel the countries over there are
fighting and these engines and weapons
are deadly and dangerous and here comes
someone that that some people like less
is doing what others have done before
we've got thousands of thermonuclear
weapons over there ourselves we think
he's evil a lot of them think we're evil
we're not setting a very good example
one thing we could do would be to pull
back now is this a viable alternative or
is this some Looney tune peacenik saying
you know not go to war against saddam
hussein let me point out that in
November the Commandant of the Marine
Corps general Schwarzkopf the commander
of the troops in the Persian Gulf -
former chairman of the Joint Chiefs on a
four-star Navy admiral testified openly
and firmly to the Congress that it would
be a mistake to go to war against Saddam
Hussein at least now they said we should
wait a year or two to see if we could
not find some way to work sanctions on
the man
to back him out of out of what he had
done in Kuwait instead for political
reasons George Bush overrode this advise
of top military commanders and proceeded
with his war now Henry B Gonzales has
that bill in there Bush did get
permission from the Congress to use
force to enforce the United Nations
resolution but they are promoting a bill
obviously it will not pass to prosecute
him to impeach him for inciting the
nation into war if we want to clean this
mess up we have to go to the - all the
real perpetrators of the incendiary
situation that we've got and and punish
them and prosecute them and hold them
responsible
and then we might have some chance of
creating a situation in the Middle East
where there could be peace now Israel's
position right now is very
understandable they are being they're
living under the threat of Scud missiles
any one of which could have chemical
weapons on it and this is not a pleasant
thing and when countries are in the
position of being shelved like that they
tend to want to go and shoot back
Israel has its own agenda and I am very
critical of some of Israel's policies
but since my position is that we should
resist war in the Persian Gulf
I applaud Israel for not in fact
plunging into the war as they might very
well have as they were tempted to do so
now however I think that Israel is is
and these are very intelligent people
living in a very you know on a thin ice
kind of situation in the Middle East in
Israel I've seen no indication that they
are really evaluating the long-term
outcome of their policies they are they
are vigorously supporting this effort to
suppress Saddam Hussein and get him
killed but it doesn't look to me like
they're looking at the consequences in
the Arab world in the Muslim world and
the anger and the rage that's being
bottled up right now it's guaranteeing
that we will have more Wars
sooner or later involving Israel in in
great violence and there are other
countries who do have chemical weapons
there and if this thing blows Israel can
nuke them and they can dump the chemical
weapons on Israel and it's going to be
very ugly in the Middle East and at
twenty-five years to come but cause of
the violence that's being generated
there right now yes
I think the peace movement is by and
large doing the right thing that is this
question or should it change its tactics
I think it's a measure of the success as
I said before of the establishment the
military establishment in creating a
good war that the peace movement would
be wearing yellow ribbons along with the
police and in Santa Cruz for example in
in sending support and warmth and
cookies to the Troops ie the Vietnam War
was stopped by the people in this
country rising up in a great rage and
anger the peace movement is is as
Richard Meister the actor said when I
was talking in LA the other day and he
stood up and he was arguing against me
on this thing and finally said well junk
because he had been a vigorous activist
in the Vietnam War against the Vietnam
War and he said John I want to feel good
about this one and well I'm sorry yes
the peace movement wants to feel good
it's in the instincts of people who want
peace that they don't want to feel rage
and anger but I'm sorry I don't see
anything good about this war there's
nothing about it that makes me feel good
nothing and there is not as much energy
coming from the peace movement as there
might be there's a crippling effect
because this is such a good war that
there seems to be something that will
buy off everybody you know are a lot of
people at different levels in this thing
they don't realize what is at stake I
have a friend in a different country who
has been of sending me books for years
he sent me the book called friendly
fascism he's a harsh critic of the US
and US military machine but when this
war was launched and we're talking about
it over the phone he says I'm gonna have
to take a pass on this one because I'm
gonna support Israel whatever happens so
he's against war and he's against the US
war complex and everything unless
Israel is involved that's you know what
has bought him into this war so on this
one he's taken a powder he's put all of
his books back in the other room and
he's going to support this war while
still condemning the US and once this
war is over he'll go back to blasting us
there is not a thread of constancy it
seems to me in his vision of what's
happening to the world and there are
other angles that are buying other
people out you know in different ways
and into this world I understand those
drives and those prerogatives but we're
paying a hell of a price because we've
restored war we've restored the military
machine and the world will pay the price
for it in the end yes ma'am
well the question is examples of
countries that have always or generally
tended to to avoid going to war famous
one of those is of course Switzerland
which has set itself up in the great
wars in Europe as a broker nation which
they all agreed they would allow it to
be neutral other countries that wanted
to be neutral weren't given that luxury
sometimes we're forced into it
Switzerland of course does merciless
economic exploitation of other countries
so you can criticize Switzerland at that
level I would really want to I've been
there and I've talked to peace activists
in Switzerland and conferred with them
including some famous women peace
activists but I really would hesitate
without some thought or a little
research to comment on the status of
women in Switzerland for example as
compared to here it is it they cannot
vote someone told me yeah this is the
details that that I like I say I want to
get into to be specific about
Switzerland but I will I think your
question is leading into what I consider
to be an extremely important point I
have always been a feminist
despite also being a chauvinist in a lot
of ways but my my father taught my
brother and I when we were very small to
mend our own trousers because my mother
had her very demanding career and it was
his policy to support her very sincerely
and we all washed dishes we all cleaned
house we all mended clothes so that he
could do his job and she could do hers
and all of that profound feminist in
terms of equal rights and all of that I
observe and watch what's happening in
the world I've said many times early on
and my own growth that that perhaps the
answer since men have so bungled the
world and gotten it into the gym that
it's in now perhaps the answer would be
to go in the direction of women's
leadership however
however with that thought you
immediately run into problems the three
great women leaders of modern times took
their countries into war Margaret
Margaret Thatcher Indira Gandhi and
Golda Meir now of course okay let me
finish
of course the feminists will stand up
and say but they were forced to play it
by the men's rules however let me point
out some thoughts to you Phil Donahue
did a show in 1985 five-part segment the
human-animal one of which was on
aggression and he had these neurologists
from UCLA who went on and gave the
statistics that men seek violent
solutions ten times as often as women
women will resort to bloody violence
attempt as often as men and I thought
about this and I wrote him a letter and
I said I think you missed something and
those professors because when you're
talking about war yes on the streets or
in a house a woman is a tenth as likely
to pick up a knife and stab women can do
it and they do it but attempt as often
as men but when you get into war you're
talking about a different dynamic
Margaret Thatcher was not picking up a
machine gun and shooting people down in
blood she was organizing her giant
family and for lots of centuries women
have been very capable of mobilizing the
family protecting the family fighting
for the turf arguing and even physically
resisting people are encroaching on her
family she was managing something and
orchestrating something very capably she
was not going to war herself now it is
true that men suffer from testosterone
poisoning this this is this is the
hormone of violence it relates to
violence there's no question about that
that's true it is actually generated by
certain types of physical activity and
in the schools for example where you
have big football teams where everyone
supports them and they get a lot of
support and their testosterone is high
there are a lot more crimes of violence
against women by football player
then for example in colleges where you
have a football team where the team is
de-emphasized and doesn't have the
support this is the testosterone factory
and the testosterone factor at its worst
I came up with a theory for whatever
it's worth and you can all scream and
throw things at me if you will but it
seems to me I watch women going through
training and Marine Corps boot camp and
screaming and yelling the same insane
songs that what was that song that they
were singing in the women's training
something about a bird flew in through
my window on the sill and I killed it I
malignant lean mean marine the same
insane mad soldiers songs that the men
were singing and it didn't take much to
get them to want to join Pat Schroeder
who's been out there in Nevada with us
protesting the nuclear arms race in the
Persian Gulf War was giving speeches
inside the Congress saying that women
must have the same rights to combat that
the men do defending the rights to be
killers it seems to me that what we're
dealing with this may be an inane idea
is that we're all 85% people and we're
all 15% men and women there's a big
common denominator in us with regarding
Wars and violence and the ability to
kill and fly planes and strafe and bomb
and rationalize violence certainly women
sure are taking to it in the Gulf with
great patriotism and gusto and there's a
15-percent factor that is different and
I applaud the difference and there is in
that factor somewhere nurturing and this
is where I come on real strong if we
turn to some source or engine in the
world for help it's not going to be to
all women because someone some women
will be perfectly happy to lead us to
war and fly the planes that drop the
nuclear weapons it's got to be to find
and isolate that 15% maternal nurturing
instinct and somehow use it to develop
the principle of nurturing our planet
and our resources and humankind
yes this this question is discussing
what's going to happen to the to the US
and to the world as the middle class
continues to shrink the poor continue to
grow percentile in in the society and
there they are called upon to support
and fight the war as the wealth is
shifted to the top the danger if we
don't reverse this policy of course is
continuing polarization that was set in
motion under the leadership of Ronald
Reagan and George Bush till eventually
in the polarization there is a great
gulf between us and then conflict and
then they apply the controls of the FEMA
and the world passes into a very harsh
and nasty world order that is the
direction in which we are going if we
don't reverse it somehow we have to find
the leadership and the energy amongst
ourselves to create a party that will
vote people into office that will begin
repealing these laws that will begin
reversing the flow that will
redistribute the wealth a little bit and
bring the people closer together so it
won't polarize into a very nasty
conflict confrontation that in fact is
evolving very rapidly right in front of
our eyes yes sir in the time
the question is is this Persian Gulf War
a genocide are we deliberately targeting
civilian targets yes I would definitely
call it a genocide to the extent which
civilians are being killed I really
deplore this war first victims I said
where the Kuwaiti who were invaded raped
pillaged and now are living on the
battlefield and the second victims are
the Iraqi people who have been are now
underneath the bombs there are lots of
people being killed by these bombs the
military is working very hard to give us
the impression that they're trying to
target military targets and then they're
being candid in saying nevertheless
there will be civilians hit I have not
seen evidence of deliberate targeting
large numbers of civilians just to be
killing large numbers of civilians we
don't know that would be bad politics
but we simply don't know they certainly
are careless certainly in Panama when
they were going in after Noriega they
managed to kill two thousand people as
we invaded that tiny little country they
were not careful and bombing and
strafing to keep it out of civilian
areas I believe that in time when the
truth is known if the media will report
it eventually we got the figures on
Panama from 60 minutes if the media will
report it I think we're going to find
that a lot more civilians were killed
than our smiling serious sober
articulate military spokes folks are
telling us right now I'm truly concerned
about that yes
the question is about CI manipulation
installation military governments in
Brazil in Chile in the 60s and 70s and
now that democracy has been restored how
effectively has it been restored and
there there is there is considerable
excitement in Chile now of the fact that
they do have a functioning democracy the
death squad activity is still taking
place but in a very small level people
can speak out they can promote bills
they can champion things and not really
worry about being disappeared the way
that that 30 or 40 thousand of them were
after we installed Pinochet into office
I have the impression that the system is
working pretty good and the Chilean
people are a lot happier about it
Pinochet is still there he and his goons
are unpublished and this is obviously a
threat and something of concern my my
grown daughter is engaged to Chilean and
I've talked to him about these things an
educated man from the universities there
who lived through that horror and his
morale is up he is cynical about the
corruption that still exists it's not as
bad as it was before yes sir in the back
the question is how important do I feel
the sea-ice role was and the downfall
destabilization the explosion implosion
of the Soviet Union that is happening
today and it's it's kind of a tough
question we haven't had any great expose
days of the programs we do know that the
CIA has been interested in encouraging
this process it clearly benefits the
United States to see the other
superpower broken down the other side of
that is there is a tendency to overrate
the power of the CIA on the one hand I
lecture and try to expose all of the
activities it's done to destabilize the
world to make so many people suffer on
the other hand the problems that the
Soviet Union has were 70 years in the
making an economy and before that an
economy that has been repressed the
people that have been repressed the
major energy of that society and greater
proportion siphoned off into the
military it came into the arms race from
World War two if you read Daniel Yergin
's book shattered peace the Soviet Union
really on its knees at the end of World
War two we were soaring it was not a
fair competition if we were competing
with them they had lost
I forget the figures 20 million people
killed there were 70,000 villages had
been razed they had lost 500,000
railroad cars for example the industrial
base shattered as the armies had fought
over it
cities had been under siege for several
long years with incredible disease and
suffering and repression tremendous
traumatic scar on the country and they
were picking themselves up from that
with a motto of never again ie they
would build up they've been invaded four
times in history by major armies from
Europe coming down and sweeping across
and they just said never again so they
set out to pay any price to develop an
army and a nuclear capability that
nobody could invade them with impunity
in the future the result was that the
Soviet people paid a tremendous price I
mean Safeways forget it to buy a pot
roast if
having someone to dinner you you know
you and this is before the recent
collapse where the conditions are so bad
now when I visited in 85 you would have
to stand in line for hours if there was
a pot roast there for you to buy when
you got there tremendous sacrifice by
the people to support a very essentially
corrupt military industrial machinery to
reverse that just to wave a wand over it
and say you're now free and capitalism
will prevail and we will prosper it just
doesn't work that way there's a sense I
talked to people of course have access
to I talked to famous economist and
people around about it people are
writing books on it one of them told me
that the Soviet Union the people had
been sold kind of a bill of goods that
that capitalism and profits were a magic
word and he said it reminded him he said
he'd written a paper he'd quoted Woody
Allen who had said he had been forced to
study violin all his life and he finally
gave it up when he was in his teens when
he realized he didn't know which end to
blow on I mean you have a system where
they declared freedom of the press but
one government agency controlled all the
paper and ink and then very quickly as
things got tight Gorbachev said you know
we have an open society we have a
president and then he pulled on to the
presidency dictatorial powers that
George Bush would dream of and and then
the KGB has now been restored to full
strength and the military and they
withdraw on the freedom of the press and
the reason that they're getting so tough
is they cannot give to the Soviet people
the goods and freedoms that the Soviet
people expected glass nose and very
stroker would would bring the CIA didn't
do all of this to the Soviet Union I'm
sure they're in there when they can you
know gigging a little bit here and there
to urge people along into the
fragmentation of the thing they probably
have representatives in Lithuania and
Latvia for example nudging the process
along but I doubt if they're really big
players in that giant dynamic of what's
happening there back to this side yes
sir
to take the last question first No
I'm not a Marxist I've struggled for a
long time to try to figure out what I am
since I left the agency I can't find a
label that fits and certainly not a
capitalist I don't have any capital I
was talking to a Welsh filmmaker who
took me to Havana to try to do a film
about the Cubans in Africa when that was
an issue in 1978 we were talking about
this and he said he said you're talking
about the good people of the world my
basic philosophy that I worked out in
college when frankly I found that
Christianity as I had been taught had
some flaws because I was taught that
everybody who didn't agree with me was
going to burn in hell as far as for all
of eternity and that seemed a little
harsh
and so I came out with my own philosophy
which I would probably describe as
humanism
some people say Neel humanism and I get
confused real easy I just call it
humanism people have to be at the bottom
and their interests and right and the
broadest health of as many people as we
possibly can has to be the driving force
and key principle of any system that I
will really commit my soul to yes oh
yeah
South Africa of course has maintained
the close ties with the United States
economic weight South Africa and Israel
they've been working at an accommodation
and modifying the apartheid laws there's
some there's obviously deep monstrous
problems living in Africa the 15 years
that I did and working there with the
CIA and visiting South Africa and keenly
aware of those problems
and the CI by the way has a longtime
historic commitment to the white South
African security services they they are
making progress they have released
Nelson Mandela from prison they are
repealing some of the laws and I do
applaud but I think that the
move now to repeal the sanctions is
premature I think that that would be
unfortunate for them to leap to do that
until you really do achieve one-person
one-vote in the country and come up with
some kind of a leveling effect it would
seem to me that the new world order is
not going to have as a fundamental
principle the people of any country
including the people of South Africa I
just cannot see George Bush getting real
worked up about the the plight and
inequities of the lives of blacks in
South Africa when he is so insensitive
to the lives of the poor in this own
country yes in the red in the back
the question is government FBI CIA
surveillance of student leaders comment
what you would have to do to attract
such hostile surveillance or interest I
would say that if you're 20 years old
and you do not have four files on you in
some government offices you're not a
responsible citizen of the world the
fastest instincts the control instincts
of the police their rationales now mind
you I would not want to live in a
society that had no police it's in the
nature of human beings that people would
get very ugly and abusive and it would
be a very difficult place to live in and
I would have to go around carrying a
weapon like Bogue Rights does and I
don't think I'm as good as shot as I
used to be and I'd rather not have to do
all of that I'd rather live in a country
that you had a police the trouble is
policing the police and kidding keeping
them from getting selective ideas that
they have the right to persecute for
example as the FBI did the civil rights
movement Martin Luther King and the deep
south finding the FBI participating in
the establishment of 50 KKK chapters for
example finding out that the FBI
director J Edgar Hoover was a compulsive
gambler gambling every weekend and two
vacations a year in mob casinos and
losing money and coincidentally having a
policy of not prosecuting or persecuting
the mob he said they were not a problem
in our society of finding out that this
man who dominated our national police
organization for so many years was was
homosexual which of course is his
business he had a live-in lover from
first a couple of three decades but he
viciously destroyed the lives of other
homosexuals and there you get into
someone who's twisted now this you get
the heritage of that organization that
he created and it is out there with a
policy that is
known it feels it has the obligation and
the right to penetrate student groups
and build files and they're they're
quite energetic they're not as pervasive
as you might think they just don't have
the budget they can't have two million
people working for them but they go in
and they recruit someone in groups and
say go around and tell us what these
people are doing and take photographs
and it's just very simply as I said if
you are active at all you're gonna be in
their files I would be very embarrassed
if I found I was not in their files it
would really mean now this is scary but
I have urged people before to go home
tonight and take out your dictionary and
erase the word safe and secure just
scratched them out altogether those
words do not pertain to a world that's
polluted with 60,000 thermonuclear
weapons and controlled by people with
the objectives that these people now
have on this world and what we're doing
to the environment of this world there
is no safe and there is no secure don't
pretend there is this is what Helen
Caldicott means you will feel better if
you get to work on the problem because
there is nowhere to hide the planet is
too small now the only solution and it's
a tough one we are heading towards an
instinctive situation for warm-blooded
life unless we change and there's
nowhere to hide yes the the other one in
the red
just very yeah very basically in Angola
the CIA is continuing the activities to
destabilize the country that I myself
helped to set in motion in 1975 arming
Jonas Savimbi I was the one that flew in
and recruited him into our program in
1975 and put him on our payroll for a
while the Clark amendment had it
suspended what we were doing and the
South Africans were doing it for us and
then President Reagan repealed the Clark
amendment and now since 1987 I think it
was we've been back in there legally
giving him arms giving him missiles with
which he shoots down passenger planes
and admits that he does it and the
result is continuing instability in
Angola it continuing suffering
continuing huge allocations of resources
into the destabilization of the country
in the defense of the country into the
rebuilding of the country it's a country
that we have designated as a permanent
permanent designated enemy and until the
government is overthrown or there is
pressure from the public to release the
country from this this enemies list of
ours I think we will probably continue
to brutalize it the Soviet Union as it's
losing its resources and collapsing into
economic chaos has less resources to put
in on the other side however Angola is
an oil country and it's been buying most
of the arms from the Soviet Union and my
sense we are by the way as you notice
drifting into Cold War - and it's my
concern that we will probably find
ourselves with the Soviets continuing to
arm Angola and us continuing to
destabilize it barring a miracle for the
Angolan people I feel very sorry for
sorry for them and with a sense of
personal involvement since I helped set
that program in motion all those years
ago
yes sir int there's a dark spot in there
but I can see a Hinda
yeah this is a good and enormous ly
timely question because George Bush was
all of the signals were that they would
bomb for another month or so the Iraqi
army and Kuwait and then Saddam Hussein
said himself our there was a signal came
out that they might withdraw from Kuwait
under certain circumstances and
immediately George Bush moved up the
date instead of months it would be a
matter of days before we would engage
the ground war because they want a
violent solution then Gorbachev steps in
and starts organizing a peace initiative
and it's not very mystifying why he's
doing what he's doing he has horrendous
problems in the Soviet Union which he
cannot solve either he is brought on
himself dictatorial powers and people
are protesting calling for his
resignation countries are breaking away
the Soviet Union is threatening to
descend into chaos with his armies or
the central armies fighting armies in
the different Republic's civil wars and
chaos and secessions he desperately
needed something to give himself some
energy and so that um he steps out as
the peace negotiator of the Persian Gulf
War what they're going to get out of it
in addition to his distracting the world
and the Soviet Union from the problems
if if he succeeds is keeping their
client state Iraq has had long ties with
the Soviet Union alive keeping it from
being invaded and overrun and broken by
the United States winning the friendship
of the Arab world that the United States
is now bitterly antagonized
unfortunately this is going to lead to
cold war to where they are on one side
and we are on another in an inflamed
situation in North Africa in the Middle
East you notice this has been very
frustrating to the White House and the
Bush administration because and they've
been open about it they would look very
bad if they launched this ground war and
we started taking body bags while there
was a serious peace proposal on the
table they want a violent solution
but on the other hand they're under
enormous pressure from the people in the
coalition in other countries and the
United Nations and the world order that
he's brought together to accept some
kind of a compromise that will save all
of the massacre in the desert so what
George Bush has done is said he would
give Saddam Hussein until tomorrow at
noon - totally capitulate and promised
total withdrawal and begin the
withdrawal with no strings attached or
we will launch the ground war and I
personally am sitting here holding my
breath hoping that that the pressure on
George Bush will force him to moderate
his position and it Saddam Hussein will
back out what Saddam Hussein has to get
out of this by the way as if he is
permitted to withdraw his army intact
then he will be he will have an army
back in Iraq with all the damage done to
society and he will be a major player
still in the Middle East George Bush's
interest is that he has this army cut
off in the desert he can destroy it
it won't wipe out the Nash the
Republican Guard but it will wipe out
about half of Iraqis forces and tanks
and artillery and all of that so he has
a strong case for wanting to cut them
off isolate them and also he wants to
blood the United States getting us
worked up to war this is not a man by
nature nor nor is it in his interest
just to neck in the backseat of a car he
needs to consummate the thing with a
violence and blood the United States and
grieve the loss of some soldiers in
order for us to be truly restored as a
warring nation yes sir
this is a question about Israel's role
in this war I've referred to it
obliquely and I hasten to say that I am
NOT it is not my forte the study of the
Middle East I'm an African estndar I
studied Central America in the 80s I'd
begun in the last eight months to read
into the Middle East I have been there
before since I was eight years old a few
times but I would not be qualified to
really speak for all the subtleties of
Israel's position and I can guarantee
you that anything I say will piss
someone off it just goes with discussing
Israel in the Middle East I would I
would say quite obviously just an
observation
Israel has for a long time since it was
formed worked very hard and very
successfully to create a lobbying group
for its interests in the United States
and it has been very successful this is
one of the strongest lobbying groups in
the United States there is nothing
outrageous are unfair about this
everybody is trying to lobby for their
interests in this country
they've just perhaps been more
successful so the United States has
given Israel a lot of aid it has helped
Israel create a force an army which it
feels quite frankly will tend to do what
it calls stabilizing and representing a
certain aspect of its interests in the
Middle East but Israel is not in a
position to represent all of the US
interests in the Middle East we have
interests in Saudi Arabia and Kuwait for
example where they're investing billions
of dollars in our economy not in their
own countries but in our economy of the
oil money and selling therefore having
to sell them military equipment and
things that makes us real uncomfortable
so there's definitely a tension between
the two countries attention between
Ronald Reagan and Israel attention
between George Bush and Israel it's it's
his great pride of accomplishment in the
New World Order and the coalition is
that he brought together certain Arab
states and other middle eastern states
including Israel into one coalition and
held them together through a month of
violence to get deeper into that subject
we should get someone a
here is it was much more of a scholar of
Israel if you will permit me I want to
take one more question the young lady in
white and then I'll get back to this
side coming through the middle George
Bush's involvement in the iran-contra
scandal is pretty well known actually he
was the most active perhaps vice
president we've ever had he had
connections in contacts from his CIA
days he had his son down in Florida he
had personal contacts with people in the
in the Cuban exile movement and then
people in the Contra infrastructure I
can give you two three specific examples
for example of the energy that he had in
the contra program when the CIA itself
was balking the pros in the CIA were
refusing to work in this thing because
they saw it as illegal and thick and
would get them in trouble and William
Casey was wiring around with with Oliver
North and with George Bush you know
running wires around the central engine
of control in the thing now three
examples come to mind four we know he
flew down to confer with Manuel Noriega
in about 1983 he was involved in trying
to set up the Black Eagle resupply thing
to the contra from the south which
Noriega eventually walked on we know
that he had direct contact
communications from Felix Rodriguez who
was placed in yellow Pongo and El
Salvador flying planes against the
Salvadorian rebels but also supervising
the air flow the Air Wing of arms from
the u.s. to the Contras in Honduras and
Nicaragua Rodriguez history goes back
into Vietnam when he was with Don Gregg
who went on to work with bush in China
and then became vice President Bush's
national security advisor Felix
Rodriguez was was reporting directly to
Don Gregg about the management of the
Contra program we know this because they
were outside of the CIA and they were
using essentially commercial
communications and we got the public
telephone bills and he was calling Don
Gregg every day for advice when Husson
foots his plane was shot down
first US official who was notified of it
was a phone call to George Bush's office
to tell him what had happened
we know that Felix Rodriquez received
money from the middie in Colombian
cocaine cartel to fund the country
operations buying access to the airplane
so the airplanes would fly drugs back
into the United States according to the
drugged laundry me Leon Rodriquez ten
million dollars to his knowledge were
funneled through Felix Rodriquez into
the contra program we also know that
they got luis poetic ideas out of prison
in Venezuela because as Felix said we
needed him and this is the man who was
responsible for blowing helping to blow
up the passenger plane taking off from
Barbados on October 26 of 1976 killing
73 passengers on board a terrorist and
airplane bummer
who has got out to work for Felix
Rodriquez in the program that was being
supervised from George Bush's vice
president's office directly we know that
very seals when he was caught smuggling
drugs flew up to Washington to confer
with the vice president's office to cut
a deal that if he would do activities
and run errands for the drug smugglers
for the CIA against that he would he
would not be prosecuted he could cut a
deal and one of the things he did was to
land a plane in Panama and and they
would kick some bales of marijuana off
it onto the runway to be photographed by
satellite and Ronald Reagan was able to
show these pictures to the public
claiming that they were in Nicaragua
claiming to prove that the son and
Easter's were smuggling drugs which they
were not now how bad was Bush's
involvement by the iran-contra scandal
broke in late October early November of
1986 and the winter of 87 and through
into the winter of 88 conservative
columnist were writing that George
Bush's political career was over but
cause of his involvement in the
iran-contra scandal they knew what had
happened and they said this man cannot
survive ie two
keep the reagan revolution going and
their gains they were going to sacrifice
him because he was too dirty and you can
go back if you like it's fun project go
down and go through the films in the
library and just flip through them and
read the columns and you'll find them in
there in the winter of 88 during a year
of 87 then to their surprise in the
spring they began to see he would not
resign and I was saying in my lectures
then that if he failed to achieve the
presidency would probably go to jail if
he didn't pull onto himself the
protection of the presidency probably
the dirt would come out and he would be
prosecuted but that's moot because he
did succeed in capturing the Republican
nomination once it began to look like
the public would buy him then the
establishment got onto his bandwagon and
began to promote him and then the energy
mounted and he went whirling into the
presidency with with Dan Quayle
following him around to fulfill the role
of making him look tall and articulated
let's let's take it is late and we have
to close the building and my voice is
breaking let's take three more questions
and then we're just going to have to go
you've been trying very hard sir
yeah this one is a really big important
subject Oliver Stone is making a movie
about it right now in Dallas I have the
great privilege to have a very small
part in his production of this film
he's also bought Jim Garrison's book on
the subject and he's very close to Jim
Garrison and it's quite moving story the
last time I talked to him they had Kevin
Costner to star in it although they
haven't announced that and I don't know
if that's true or if it's a rumor
they are putting together what should be
with his magic touch very powerful
recreation of what happened and we would
you know obviously we would need three
hours to go through the whole thing I
have tried to read up on it the best
book on the subject that we have out now
right now I wouldn't say it's perfect
but it's the best it's crossfire by Jim
Marrs
summarizing in a nutshell there is not
any possibility that there was a lone
assassin Lee Harvey Oswald was not on
the sixth floor of the Book Depository
when the president was killed the rifle
that they attributed to him did not do
the killing there was a plot to killing
as Fletcher Prouty puts it we know how
to keep presidents alive in that case
because so many people in the power
structure wanted him dead they withdrew
the protection and let him be killed it
was a military ambush there were three
firing stations in my my military
expertise I would testify in court as as
an expert witness I would say that there
were at least 12 people involved in in
the action itself it was a
military-style ambush I can show you
that 8 to 10 shots were fired there were
two stations from behind and one from
the front carefully timed carefully
planned and totally brass broad daylight
a military ambush the cover-up went into
effect immediately
J Edgar Hoover obviously had some prior
knowledge but
before the Dallas police could have
identified Lee Harvey Oswald he called
Bobby Kennedy and gave him Lee Harvey
Oswald's bio and said he was the killer
we know that the mob and others there
were police reports that that in the mob
and in some right-wing organizations in
Florida that the president was going to
be killed with a high-powered rifle and
a patsy set up to take the fall and this
is exactly what happened in my own
estimation and this gets into less of an
expert witness but just my own reading
and reconstruction of what happened a
lot of people read into this say
renegades did it but they were
definitely associated with the CIA the
Mafia and Cuban exiles I think we can
make a case that would definitely stand
up in court if we could ever get this
thing back into court to that effect the
renegades were CIA operatives who are
working out of the JM wave station
running military activities into Cuba
and then they turned the guns on the
president in the United States because
of the collective rage against him the
question gets to be then did the CIA
High Command have any prior knowledge
did they plan it did they order it did
they have a prior knowledge of it I
believe there are thin indications that
they did but there's not enough that you
could cite it as solid evidence in court
my instincts see they had created the Zr
rifle assassination unit under William
Harvey who hated the Kennedys who had
clashed with the Kennedys and he was
running we have his handwritten project
outline because they didn't want a
secretary to type it setting up the
cessation unit saying it has to be
criminals have to be recruited to run
the activities and case officers who are
comfortable with criminal activities
have to manage it and this thing was set
up and he had he had clashed with the
Kennedys in a violent way over the Cuban
Missile Crisis
well that god this is so complex it's
hard just to assert it but well the
President Kennedy was trying to get the
missiles out of Cuba and
thing World War 3 nuclear war with the
Soviet Union but wanting to resolve it
bluffing him not wanting to go to war
William Harvey was jamming killer teams
into Cuba to provoke the war to provoke
the fighting and this was a pirate thing
outside of policy by a madman down in
the sea is assassination unit afterwards
Bobby Kennedy found out what had
happened and they broke Harvey and
exiled him to the Rome station and
eventually he died of eating beef and
steaks and drinking too much but at the
time his rage against Kennedy and his
propensity for killing and this unit's
activity and then the threads and
indications that we have I would say
somewhere from that group are the people
that worked under him or with him with
Cuban exiles with the Mafia and we have
a lot of details of the overlapping
activities with the Mafia in this thing
they are the ones who actually put the
shooters in Dallas and pull the triggers
yes there in the red
well I'll give you some suggestions and
I don't mean these to be radical in
terms of specifics you know I don't know
where you live and what your your skills
are in talents in that sense whether you
should join this type of a group or that
but one thing I had to teach myself to
read these books when I left the CIA I'd
been reading tables but mostly running
operations and reading fiction for fun I
had to teach my mind to read in order to
master all of this stuff and come up
with the observations that I come up
with I would suggest that you go home
and unplug your television set with a
pair of scissors
it's it's an enormous amount of fun when
you're tired it's addictive and you're
being fed lots of illusions and
fantasies and fun things that will
distract you from reading and informing
yourself if there's a television around
you will not converse with people and
share ideas and information and grow
there's always somewhere you can go to
watch a tennis match or a football game
if you want to as a special event you'll
enjoy it more you can get your news and
information and CNN is such a champion
of the truth anyway you can get it from
other sources set yourself a habit of
reading start with newspapers and
journals share articles with people
practice reading and then sharing the
information with as many people as you
can travel with when you can because
it's enormous ly growth 'fl to travel go
to countries I went for example in all
of my different travels I went to
Vietnam to see what we had done there I
went to England to go out and spend the
afternoon talking to the women at
Greenham Commons you know that we're
doing their protest I've tried to go
everywhere I could on my limited
resources it's not easy but it's
tremendously growth 'fl and you just
feel a greater sense of the universe in
the world when you sit down with
concerned people in London or in Sweden
or in in Hanoi or in an island in the
Caribbean or wherever it's a tough
whenever the less but the key has to be
that kind of an approach reaching out
broadly to people all the way across the
world it's the only way I see that we're
gonna be able to turn this thing back
enough people deeply concerned I had an
interesting discussion and I don't mean
to get into esoteric interpretations and
everybody has different personalities
but I had a small clash with one of the
security officers in the airport in San
Luis Obispo he didn't know me it was
nothing personal but he was he was
following people around and you would
try to by you know get a cup of coffee
over here and he would say you had to
carry your suitcase over there and then
carry it back because you shouldn't be
separated from your suitcases and then
he got kind of outrageous and so I stood
up to him and told him he was not doing
his job properly and that there was no
threat since I was here and you know my
suitcase was 6:00 in the morning and I
was tired but nevertheless and then a
gentleman got up and wanted to fight me
he was threatened to hit me I think he
was martial arts or something because
he's not very big but he ordered me to
apologize and threaten me and so I stood
literally nose touching nose with him
it's the way he put himself telling him
that he should back down that it was my
business and he was interfering and if
he wanted to miss his plane and me miss
mine you know then we could spend the
morning talking about this but that he
should sit down then I went over and sat
down with this officer and talked to him
about how to do his job of watching for
security things without becoming a Nazi
and abusing people and bullying people
in disrupting their lives now we were
discussing this and Santacruz later and
a peace activist said I'm a hard-nosed
you know that I was being a source of
friction but I and and Lord knows I do
not say that I'm you know I'm all wisdom
or anything but my thought is this I
disagree with the Bible on the point
that you turn your other cheek when
someone hits you because I guarantee if
a bully hits you and you turn your other
cheek he'll hit it too and what I
believe I don't believe in hitting back
but I believe when someone hits you you
very firmly and reasonably tell them
that it's wrong to hit that they
shouldn't hit that they should find
another way to do business and if they
do hit you a second time you tell them
again but that's not the proper conduct
because it's clearly demonstrated
throughout history that if you let
people steamroll you especially police
and they get the sense that they have
the right to bully people and shove them
around they'll do it if they get
feedback and protest vigorous firms sane
mature feedback then they have to cope
with it and they'll pull back I think
this kind of approach the people in
government if we roll over and say it's
inevitable then they win by default we
have to stand up to them in every form
you can think of
and reason with them now I'm sorry for
the others it's getting so late but that
the lady in white has been trying all
night to speak and I'm dying to hear
well only the question is about the
state defense forces and the neo-nazi
camps that are springing up all over the
country and do I have a comment and only
the very obvious comment that this is
very definitely a manifestation of the
the instincts and principles that
President Reagan governor Reagan worked
to inculcate Bush a little bit less
petty and obnoxious about it but Ronald
Reagan had a real affinity for such
madness and these things are grassroots
madness this is a dangerous element this
is where you're taking the worst kind of
people and they're being encouraged to
get together and rehearse war rehearse
machine-gunning people rehearse imposing
their will on people I see it as a very
dangerous thing very much a symptom of
the times of what's happening of what
we're heading into very much part of
what all sane people have to calmly
maturely and determinedly put the brakes
on this could go on all night but it
can't go on all night I've got to speak
again in San Diego at noon tomorrow and
get up at 5:00 to get there at the
airport thank you very much
[Applause]
is there someone can drive can we get
out of here really